Add a guide for Fedora releases (#492)
packit/packit.dev: content/docs/fedora-releases-guide.md

instead of using hardcoded versions.

#### New upstream release
The process of releasing a new version starts in the upstream repository by creating a 
new upstream release. Packit gets the information about the newly created release from GitHub,
loads the config from the release commit and if there is a `propose_downstream` job
defined, the workflow begins.
Users with write or admin permissions to the repository can retrigger an
update via a comment in an issue:

    /packit propose-downstream

#### Uploading archive to lookaside cache
The upstream archive needs to be downloaded by Packit at first and then uploaded to the lookaside cache.

For our Python packages, [we use](https://github.com/packit/packit/blob/main/.github/workflows/pypi-publish.yml) a 
[GitHub action](https://packaging.python.org/guides/publishing-package-distribution-releases-using-github-actions-ci-cd-workflows) that automatically builds and uploads the archive to PyPI 
on each new release. Then during `propose_downstream`, Packit tries to download the archive from the PyPI and 
also utilises retries in case the upstream archive is not 

> available in the time of running the job.

Reviewer: I would try to divide an example of PyPI and what Packit does in general.

#### Updating dist-git content
After saving the archive in the lookaside cache,
Packit updates the dist-git content (mainly `sources` file and spec-file) via pull requests for the specified branches.
When running [locally](/docs/cli/propose-downstream), you can set `create_pr` option in the configuration to `false`
to directly push to a dist-git branch. This option is ignored in Packit running on GitHub/GitLab for security reasons and **is not**

> recommended either.

Reviewer: We can also mention `sync_files`. (Or how is it called now..;)

it's on downstream CI systems and maintainer(s) to check the changes and merge
the pull requests.

## Koji build job
After having the dist-git content updated, you can easily automate also building in Koji.
You can simply configure Packit to react to the new commits in your dist-git repository and create
Koji builds by having
a Packit configuration (when using `propose_downstream` job, the Packit configuration is synced by default) in your 
dist-git repository that includes a `koji_build` job.
Then, if Packit is informed (via fedora-messaging bus) about a new commit in the configured dist-git branch, it submits a new build in Koji
like maintainers usually do. (The commits without any spec-file change are skipped.)

By default, only merged pull requests created by Packit are being acted upon, but 
you can override this behaviour by specifying
`allowed_pr_authors` and/or `allowed_committers` in the [job configuration](/docs/configuration/#koji_build). 

The [koji_build job](/docs/configuration/#koji_build) can be configured like this:

```yaml
jobs:
- job: koji_build
  trigger: commit
  dist_git_branches:
    - fedora-all
```

> There is no UI provided by Packit for the job,

Reviewer: We can mention `issue_repository`.

---
title: How to do Fedora releases with Packit
weight: 9
---
# How to do Fedora releases with Packit

Let's split the release process into single steps:
1. New upstream release 
2. Uploading archive to lookaside cache
3. Updating dist-git content 
4. Koji builds
5. Bodhi updates

Doing Fedora releases with Packit means utilising our 3 jobs - `propose_downstream`, `koji_build` and 
`bodhi_update` - where each of the jobs takes care of a different part of the release process.

## Propose downstream job

> For enabling the propose downstream job, you need to have [Packit Service installed](/docs/packit-service) 

Reviewer 2: The use of `propose downstream` is a bit inconsistent in this part of the text, it is used both with and without the underscore. Perhaps we should just use `propose_downstream` everywhere? Although this may look a bit weird in the text.

Author: I am really not sure, using `propose_downstream` everywhere looks weird to me, I know it isn't 100% consistent, but I tried to use `propose_downstream` when referencing directly the configuration

Reviewer 2: Agreed, lets keep `propose_downstream` for when referencing the config specifically

and have a `propose_downstream` job in the configuration file for the given upstream repository.
The [propose_downstream job](/docs/configuration/#propose_downstream) should be then configured like this:

```yaml
jobs:
- job: propose_downstream
  trigger: release
  dist_git_branches:
    - main
```
You can adjust the `dist_git_branches` field to include the
dist-git branches you want to update and also utilise [aliases](/docs/configuration/#aliases) 
instead of using hardcoded versions.

#### New upstream release
The process of releasing a new version starts in the upstream repository by creating a 

> new upstream release. Packit gets the information about the newly created release from GitHub,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
new upstream release. Packit gets the information about the newly created release from GitHub (not from a git tag),
```
I know there were questions in the past where folks expected that a git-tag would be fine to do.
So I wonder if this wording makes sense.

Author: I included it in that sentence, let me know if it makes sense like this

loads the config from the release commit and if there is a `propose_downstream` job
defined, the workflow begins.
Users with write or admin permissions to the repository can retrigger an
update via a comment in any open issue:

    /packit propose-downstream

#### Uploading archive to lookaside cache
The upstream archive needs to be downloaded by Packit at first and then uploaded to the lookaside cache.
By default, Packit downloads sources defined in the specfile that contain URLs.
You can override these URLs via [`sources`](/docs/configuration#sources) configuration key.

For Python packages, you can use a 
[GitHub action](https://packaging.python.org/guides/publishing-package-distribution-releases-using-github-actions-ci-cd-workflows)
([example setup of Packit itself](https://github.com/packit/packit/blob/main/.github/workflows/pypi-publish.yml))
that automatically builds and uploads the archive to PyPI 

> on each new release. Then during `propose_downstream`, Packit tries to download the archive from the PyPI and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
on each new release. Then during `propose_downstream`, Packit tries to download the archive from the provided URL and 
```
This is not technically correct as the archives are hosted in Fedora and not on PyPI, e.g. `Source0: https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/source/p/packitos/packitos-0.54.0.tar.gz`

> also utilises retries in case the upstream archive is not 

Reviewer 2: `utilises retries` may be a bit ambiguous to a regular user. Maybe something like `Packit tries to download the archive from the PyPI. If the download fails, i.e. the upstream archive is not available at the time of running the job, the job is scheduled to be retried later.` (also note the `at the time` rather than `in the time`)

available in the time of running the job.

#### Updating dist-git content
After saving the archive in the lookaside cache,

> Packit updates the dist-git content (mainly `sources` file and spec-file) via pull requests for the specified branches.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest using `spec file` instead of `spec-file`. We discussed the same thing in https://github.com/packit/specfile and ended up going with the latter. However, this may be a problem in more places in the docs.

When running [locally](/docs/cli/propose-downstream), you can set `create_pr` option in the configuration to `false`
to directly push to a dist-git branch. This option is ignored in Packit running on GitHub/GitLab for security reasons and **is not**

> recommended either. You can configure which files in the upstream repo should be copied to dist-git during an update

Reviewer 3: Since it's not recommended, then I wouldn't talk about it :) but would totally mention the local way of running `packit`

via [`files_to_sync`](/docs/configuration/#files_to_sync) configuration key.

The version in the spec-file is set to the version that Packit gets from the upstream tag 
corresponding to the release that triggered the job. If the version and tag differ, 
you can specify the [`upstream_tag_template`](/docs/configuration/#upstream_tag_template)
configuration option so that Packit can extract the correct version.

If you use [`copy_upstream_release_description: true`](/docs/configuration/#copy_upstream_release_description),
the changelog entry will use the GitHub release description field.
(Just make sure the formatting is compatible with spec-file.
E.g. use `-` instead of `*` for lists to not create multiple changelog entries.)
There is also [`sync_changelog`](/docs/configuration/#sync_changelog) configuration option to enable syncing 
the whole changelog.

During proposing a new update, you will get updates of the job status via commit statuses/checks
on the release commit. These will provide links to our dashboard where you can find all the information about 
the job including the logs. You can check all `propose_downstream` runs in `Propose Downstreams` tab in [`Jobs` 

> section of our dashboard](https://dashboard.packit.dev/jobs).

Reviewer 2: Maybe even 2 screenshots? One for dashboard and one for created d-g PRs?

> section of our dashboard](https://dashboard.packit.dev/jobs).

Author: I included a screenshot of Propose downstreams tab in the dashboard, for me it seems enough and too many screenshots can be distracting, also there are a lot of screenshots already included in the blog post about releases, let me know what do you think
